---
title: "Research Software Engineering Conference 2026"
icon_alt: Award icon
categories: 
  - National
group: events
date: 2026-09-09
layout: event
image: /assets/images/rse_logo.png
web-page: https://rsecon26.society-rse.org/
project-type: National events
location: University of Sheffield & Online
summary: As the flagship event of the Society of Research Software Engineering and the research software community, RSECon26 provides a forum to share ideas, debate strategies, and develop collective visions for the future of Research Software Engineering. Together, we can shape an environment where software is recognised as a fundamental research product — and where those who build it are acknowledged as being at the centre of research and discovery. 
---

The Society of Research Software Engineering is running it's annual conference, RSECon26, from 9-11 September 2026 at the University of Sheffield and online.  

As the flagship event of the research software community, RSECon26 provides a forum to share ideas, debate strategies, and develop collective visions for the future of Research Software Engineering. Together, we can shape an environment where software is recognised as a fundamental research product — and where those who build it are acknowledged as being at the centre of research and discovery.

Research Software Engineers play a vital role in advancing research, from research project design and planning, all the way to impact and dissemination. Yet, more than a decade after it was formalised, the RSE role is still unevenly recognised across institutions and the central contribution of RSEs to the research process is still not fully acknowledged. For the RSE profession to thrive, it must be recognised as a research career path in its own right, one that combines computational expertise, methodological innovation, and research understanding. Establishing clear, long-term RSE career frameworks will help attract new generations who see software not only as a tool for research, but as a means of doing research.

**Audience:** Research software engineers, researchers and technical experts, PhD students and anyone interested in research software.

**Cost:** £400 in-person, £150 online

**Format:** In-person and online

**Location:** The Wave, University of Sheffield, 2 Whitham Road, Sheffield, S10 2TQ 

More information & registration: [https://rsecon26.society-rse.org/](https://rsecon26.society-rse.org/)

*For questions, contact the organising committee at rsecon26-steering-group@society-rse.org*